# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Exodus (id: 499063)

**What is the book of Exodus?**

* Exodus is an account of events in Israel’s history. It’s recorded as a collection of stories and laws. They were passed down within Israelite and Jewish families for hundreds of years. God spoke the laws to Moses and the people of Israel.
* It’s thought that Moses wrote some of these stories and laws down. It’s thought that he wrote them down between the years 1450 and 1410 BC.
* Other parts of Exodus were written down by other Israelites.

**Who was this book written for?**

* For the people of Israel.

**Why was Exodus written?**

* To record the story of how God saved Jacob’s family line from slavery in Egypt. In the Greek language the word exodus means to exit or to leave. This book is about the Israelites leaving Egypt.
* To show how the Israelites became a nation. They became the nation that God promised to Abraham in Genesis.

**Main ideas**

* God saving his people and providing for them.
* God’s covenant with the Israelites.
* The Ten Commandments and God’s laws.

**Outline**

**The Israelites leave Egypt (1 – 15\).**

**The Israelites in the desert (16 – 18\).**

**The Israelites at Mount Sanai (19 – 40\).**

* **Associated Passages:** EXO 1:1

