# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Numbers (id: 499065)

**What is the book of Numbers?**

* Numbers is an account of events in Israel’s history. It’s recorded as a collection of stories and laws. They were passed down within Israelite and Jewish families for hundreds of years. God spoke the laws to Moses and the people of Israel.
* It’s thought that Moses wrote some of these stories and laws down. It’s thought that he wrote them down between the years 1450 and 1410 BC.
* Others were written down by other Israelites.

**Who was this book written for?**

* For the people of Israel.

**Why was Numbers written?**

* To record the Israelites’ journey from Mount Sinai to the border of Canaan.
* To record more of God’s laws for the Israelites.
* To record the lists of people that were counted.

**Main ideas**

* Jacob’s family line had grown very large.
* The Israelites suffered when they disobeyed God and spoke against him.
* God forgave the Israelites. He had patience with them and provided for them.

**Outline**

**The Israelites prepare to leave Mount Sinai (1 – 10\).**

**The Israelites speak against God and Moses (11 – 12\).**

**The Israelites refuse to enter Canaan (13 – 14\).**

**Wandering in the desert (15 – 19\).**

**Marching from Kadesh to the plains of Moab (20 – 21\).**

**The Israelites prepare to enter Canaan (22 – 36\).**

* **Associated Passages:** NUM 1:1

