# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Joshua (id: 499067)

**What is the book of Joshua?**

* The book of Joshua is an account of events in Israel’s history. It’s recorded as a collection of stories. These were passed down within Israelite and Jewish families for hundreds of years.
* It’s thought that Joshua wrote some of these stories down around 1370 BC.
* Other stories were written down by other Israelites.

**Who was this book written for?**

* For the people of Israel.

**Why was Joshua written?**

* To show how the 12 tribes came to live in Canaan. This was during the time that Joshua was the leader.
* To record God’s mighty acts to drive out the nations that were in Canaan. This was how God fulfilled his promise to give land to Abraham’s family line.

**Main ideas**

* God brought judgement against the Canaanites.
* God fulfilled his promises to give land to the children of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
* The Israelites committed once again to keeping the Mount Sinai covenant.

**Outline**

**Entering Canaan (1:1 – 5:12\).**

**God’s judgement against people groups in Canaan (5:13 − 12:24\).**

**Lands divided up among the Israelites (13 – 22\).**

**Joshua’s last words and his death (23 – 24\).**

* **Associated Passages:** JOS 1:1

