# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Judges (id: 499068)

**What is the book of Judges?**

* Judges is an account of events in Israel’s history. It’s recorded as a collection of stories. These were passed down within Israelite and Jewish families for hundreds of years.
* These stories were written down by Israelites. It’s thought that some were written down between 1375 and 1050 BC. Others were written down later.

**Who was this book written for?**

* For the people of Israel.

**Why was Judges written?**

* To show what happened among the Israelite tribes in Canaan after Joshua died.
* To record the stories of the tribes’ work to drive the Canaanites out. The stories show how the Israelites didn’t stay committed to the Mount Sinai covenant.
* To record the stories of 12 leaders who were called judges. They led in different areas of the nation of Israel.

**Main ideas**

* The pattern of sin, suffering and salvation happened over and over again.
* God used leaders who were faithful to him. He also used leaders who weren’t faithful to him.
* The Israelites failed to live as a kingdom of priests and a holy nation.

**Outline**

**The Israelites didn’t drive out all the Canaanites (1\).**

**The pattern of** **sin, suffering and salvation is described (2:1 – 3:6\).**

**12 judges who led after Joshua (3:7 – 16:31\).**

**The Israelites didn’t live as a kingdom of priests or a holy nation (17 – 21\).**

* **Associated Passages:** JDG 1:1

