# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Job (id: 499079)

**What is the book of Job?**

* Job is a book of Israel’s wisdom, poems and songs. It asks many questions about suffering and offers some answers. It does this through a story about Job and speeches by Job, his friends and God. Most of the book is written as long poems.
* The story of Job took place in the times when Abraham, Isaac and Jacob lived. It took place east of the land of Israel.
* It isn’t known who wrote the book of Job or when it was written down.

**Who was this book written for?**

* For the people of Israel.

**Why was Job written?**

* To explain different ways that people suffer.
* To show that God has more power and authority than anything or anyone else.
* To show that God makes life possible for everything he created.
* To give an example of someone remaining faithful to God when they are suffering.

**Main ideas**

* Suffering happens for many different reasons. It can’t be explained only as the result of someone’s sin.
* Human beings can’t fully understand God and his actions. They can trust that he loves everything he created and does good for his creatures.
* God tests human beings. Tests can show if a person is truly committed to God.

**Outline**

**Job is blessed with success (1:1–5\).**

**Job is tested** **(1 – 2\).**

**Speeches by Job,** **Eliphaz, Bildad and Zophar (3 – 31\).**

**A speech by Elihu (32 – 37\).**

**Speeches by God (38:1 – 42:6\).**

**Job is blessed with success again (42:7–17\).**

* **Associated Passages:** JOB 1:1

