# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Hosea (id: 499089)

**What is the book of** **Hosea?**

* Hosea is a book of Israel’s prophets. It’s a collection of messages from God and stories about Hosea’s life.
* Most of the messages were about the people and leaders of the northern kingdom.
* These messages were spoken over a period of many years. Hosea prophesied when the last seven kings of the northern kingdom ruled. He prophesied from around the year 750 BC to around the year 722 BC.
* The messages talk about events from those years. This includes when Assyria took control of the northern kingdom in 722 BC. They also talk about events that haven’t happened yet.
* The messages were written down as poems.
* It’s thought that Hosea wrote down parts of this book. Other parts were written down by other Israelites.
* New Testament writers understood that some of Hosea’s prophecies were fulfilled in Jesus’ life and work.

**Who was this book written for?**

* For the people of the northern kingdom of Israel.

**Why was Hosea written?**

* To accuse the people and leaders of the northern kingdom. They had not been faithful to the Mount Sinai covenant.
* To urge them to be faithful to God. If they were faithful to him, God wouldn’t bring judgement against them.
* To give them hope for their future after the time of judgement. The hope was based on God’s faithful love for them.

**Main ideas**

* Hosea’s marriage was a picture of the relationship between God and the northern kingdom.
* The covenant curses would come to the people and leaders of the northern kingdom. They would be destroyed by Assyrian armies. This would be God’s judgement against them.
* God longed for his people to receive his love freely. He promised that this would happen one day in the future.

**Outline**

**Hosea shares God’s messages through prophetic actions (1 – 3\).**

**God accuses and warns the northern kingdom (4 – 14\).**

* **Associated Passages:** HOS 1:1

