# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Joel (id: 499090)

**What is the book of Joel?**

* Joel is a book of Israel’s prophets. It’s a collection of messages from God that Joel spoke.
* Most of the messages were about the people and priests of the southern kingdom.
* It isn’t known what town Joel was from or when he spoke these messages.
* The messages are about a plague of locusts in the land of Judah. They are about times of judgement and times of blessing. They are also about events that haven’t happened yet.
* The messages were written down as poems.
* It’s thought that Joel wrote down these messages.
* New Testament writers understood that some of Joel’s prophecies were fulfilled during Pentecost. That Pentecost was when Jesus sent the Holy Spirit to his followers.

**Who was this book written for?**

* For the people of the southern kingdom of Judah.

**Why was Joel written?**

* To mourn a plague of locusts that destroyed all the crops.
* To urge God’s people to turn back to God and to repent of their sin.
* To show God’s desire to bless all people who serve him.

**Main ideas**

* God brings judgement against his people and against all people groups for their sin.
* God longs for all people to turn away from sin. He longs for them to be completely committed to him.
* The day of the Lord is a time of judgement for some. It’s a time of blessing for others.

**Outline**

**The plague of locusts** **as the day of the Lord** **(1\).**

**The army of locusts as the day of the Lord (2:1–27\).**

**God’s judgement against the nations as the day of the Lord (2:28 – 3:21\).**

* **Associated Passages:** JOL 1:1

