# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Haggai (id: 499098)

**What is the book of Haggai?**

* Haggai is a book of Israel’s prophets. It’s a collection of messages from God that Haggai spoke.
* The messages were about the land of Judah when the Persian government was in control. They were part of the story told in Ezra chapters 1 through 6\. The messages were also promises about events that happened after that time.
* Haggai spoke these messages in the year 520 BC. That was the second year that Darius was king of Persia.
* It’s thought that Haggai wrote down these messages.
* New Testament writers understood that some of Haggai’s prophecies were fulfilled in Jesus’ life and work.

**Who was this book written for?**

* For Zerubbabel, Joshua and Jews who had returned to Judah. They had lived in exile in Babylon for many years.

**Why was** **Haggai written?**

* To remind the Jews to be faithful to the Mount Sinai covenant after the exile.
* To record the messages that helped the Jews finish building the temple.
* To encourage the Jews because God remained faithful to his covenant with David.

**Main ideas**

* God remained faithful to the Mount Sinai covenant and to his covenant with David. He remained faithful to these covenants after the time of exile.
* Being faithful to the Mount Sinai covenant led to the covenant blessings. Not being faithful led to the covenant curses.
* God wanted the Jews to rebuild the temple. It was part of God’s plan to bless all nations.
* God’s Spirit gives people the ability to obey God faithfully.

**Outline**

**Messages about being faithful to the Mount Sinai covenant (1:1 – 2:19\).**

**Message of hope about God’s covenant with David (2:20–23\).**

* **Associated Passages:** HAG 1:1

