# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Matthew (id: 499035)

**What is the book of Matthew?**

* The Gospel of Matthew is a collection of stories about Jesus. It includes Jesus’ words and teachings. The stories and teachings were passed down by Jesus’ followers who lived and worked with him.
* Matthew wrote these stories and teachings down. It’s thought that he wrote them down between the years AD 60 and 65\.

**Who was Matthew written for?**

* For Jews in Israel during Jesus’ time.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that Matthew’s gospel shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was Matthew written?**

* To show Jews that Jesus is the King and Messiah God had promised to send.
* To urge Jews to believe in Jesus and follow him faithfully.

**Main ideas**

* Jesus’ life and work fulfil Old Testament prophecies about the Messiah.
* Jesus has authority as a teacher. Matthew recorded Jesus’ teachings in five long messages.
* Jesus is the King of the whole world.
* Jesus brought God’s kingdom to earth.

**Outline**

**Jesus’ family line and birth (1 – 2\).**

**Jesus is baptised and tempted (3 – 4\).**

**Jesus’ first** **long message. Teachings on the mountainside (5 – 7\).**

**Jesus shows he has authority (8 – 9\).**

**Jesus’ second long message. Teachings for the 12 disciples (10\).**

**Some believe in Jesus and some oppose him (11 – 12\).**

**Jesus’ third long message. Teachings about the kingdom of heaven (13\).**

**Jesus performs miracles and is opposed (14 – 17\).**

**Jesus’ fourth long message. Teachings about the kingdom of heaven and about being important (18\).**

**Jesus travels to Jerusalem and warns Jerusalem (19 – 23\).**

**Jesus’ fifth long message. Teachings from the Mount of Olives (24 – 25\).**

**Jesus’ last days, death and resurrection (26:1 – 28:15\).**

**Jesus’ final instructions to his disciples (28:16–20\).**

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 1:1

