# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Mark (id: 499036)

**What is the book of Mark?**

* The Gospel of Mark is a collection of stories about Jesus. It includes Jesus’ words and teachings. The stories and teachings were passed down by Jesus’ followers who lived and worked with him. Mark’s gospel is based on what Peter said about Jesus’ life and work.
* Mark wrote these stories and teachings down. It’s thought that he wrote them down between the years AD 55 and 65\. It’s thought that he was in Rome when he wrote them down.

**Who was Mark written for?**

* For Gentiles who didn’t know who Jesus was.
* For Gentile believers who lived throughout the lands controlled by the Roman government.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that Mark’s gospel shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was Mark written?**

* To share the message about Jesus with Gentiles.
* To encourage Gentile believers who were being treated badly by the Roman government.

**Main ideas**

* The story of Jesus, God’s kingdom and God’s plan to save the world.
* Jesus’ work as God’s servant.
* Jesus’ work as a teacher, healer and preacher who performed miracles.
* Jesus’ suffering, death and resurrection.

**Outline**

**Preparing for Jesus’ work (1:1–13\).**

**Jesus works and serves in Galilee (1:14 – 3:35\).**

**Stories Jesus tells (4:1–34\).**

**Jesus heals many people (4:35 – 5:43\).**

**Jesus works and serves beyond Galilee (6:1 – 8:26\).**

**Jesus’ journey to Jerusalem (8:27 – 10:52\).**

**Jesus in Jerusalem and his death (11 – 15\).**

**Jesus’ resurrection and final instructions to his disciples (16\).**

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 1:1

