# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Luke (id: 499037)

**What is the book of** **Luke?**

* The Gospel of Luke is a collection of stories about Jesus. It includes Jesus’ words and teachings. The stories and teachings were shared by Jesus’ followers who lived and worked with him.
* Luke wrote these stories and teachings down. Then he wrote down the stories and teachings recorded in the book of Acts. They are two parts of the same book. It’s thought that Luke wrote them down between the years AD 60 and 70\.

**Who was Luke written for?**

* For Gentile believers who lived throughout the lands controlled by the Roman government.
* For someone named Theophilus.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that Luke’s gospel shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was Luke written?**

* So that people would know that the teachings about Jesus were true.
* To show that Gentile Christians are welcome in God’s kingdom.

**Main ideas**

* How important Jesus’ birth, death and resurrection are.
* Jesus’ teachings through parables.
* How important Jews and Gentiles are in God’s plan to save the world.
* Jesus’ concern for women, the poor, the ill, tax collectors and sinners.
* The Holy Spirit, prayer, praise and joy.

**Outline**

**Why Luke wrote his gospel (1:1–4\).**

**John the Baptist and Jesus are born (1:5 – 2:52\).**

**Preparing for Jesus to work and serve in public (3:1 – 4:13\).**

**Jesus in and around Galilee (4:14 – 9:50\).**

**Jesus on the way to Jerusalem (9:51 – 19:27\).**

**Jesus’ sacrifice and victory in his last days (19:28 – 24:53\).**

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 1:1

