# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## 1 Corinthians (id: 499041)

**What is the book of 1 Corinthians?**

* The book of 1 Corinthians is a letter from Paul. Sosthenes helped Paul write it.
* Paul wrote this letter near the end of his third journey. It’s thought that he wrote it around the year AD 55\.
* The New Testament includes two letters from Paul to the church in Corinth. This is the first letter.

**Who was 1 Corinthians written to?**

* To the believers in the city of Corinth. Some were Jews but most were Gentiles. Some were wealthy and others were poor. Not many of them had studied the Old Testament.
* The letter was read out loud in the churches all around the area of Corinth.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that 1 Corinthians shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was 1 Corinthians written?**

* To answer questions the believers in the church at Corinth had asked Paul. They had written him letters about problems in their church.
* To encourage the Corinthian believers.

**Main ideas**

* Holy living and living in peace with other believers.
* Keeping order in worship services and during the Lord’s Supper.
* How to use gifts from the Spirit.
* The truth about Jesus rising from the dead.

**Outline**

**Greetings (1:1–9\).**

**Problems in Corinth (1:10 – 6:20\).**

**Paul answers questions from the Corinthian believers (7 – 14\).**

**Jesus was raised from the dead (15\).**

**Paul shares greetings and says goodbye (16\).**

* **Associated Passages:** 1CO 1:1

