# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Philippians (id: 499045)

**What is the book of Philippians?**

* The book of Philippians is a letter from Paul. Timothy helped Paul write it.
* Paul was in prison when he wrote this letter. It’s thought that he wrote it around the year AD 61\.

**Who was Philippians written to?**

* To the believers in the city of Philippi. Some were Jews but most were Gentiles.
* The letter was read out loud in the churches all around the area of Philippi.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that Philippians shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was Philippians written?**

* To thank the Philippian believers for the money they had sent Paul through Epaphroditus.
* To tell the Philippian believers how Paul was doing while he was in prison.
* To oppose teachers who were teaching things that weren’t true.
* Epaphroditus had become sick while visiting and helping Paul. When he was better, Paul sent him back to Philippi with this letter.

**Main ideas**

* Joy in serving Jesus.
* Belonging to Jesus.
* Following Jesus’ example for living.
* Saying no to teachings that aren’t true.

**Outline**

**Greetings (1:1–11\).**

**Paul spreads the good news while in prison (1:12–30\).**

**Following Jesus’ example (2:1–18\).**

**Words about Timothy and Epaphroditus (2:19–30\).**

**A warning about teachings that aren’t true (3\).**

**Living with God’s peace and joy (4:1–9\).**

**Paul thanks the Philippians for their gifts (4:10–20\).**

**Final greetings (4:21–23\).**

* **Associated Passages:** PHP 1:1

