# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Hebrews (id: 499053)

**What is the book of** **Hebrews?**

* The book of Hebrews is a letter. It isn’t known who wrote it. It’s thought that the writer worked together with Paul.
* It’s thought that Hebrews was written around the year AD 65\. It was written before Jerusalem and the temple were destroyed in AD 70\.

**Who was Hebrews written to?**

* It isn’t known exactly who Hebrews was written to. It’s thought that it was to the community of Jewish believers in Rome. The people who received the letter knew the writer well.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that Hebrews shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was Hebrews written?**

* To show how the promises of God’s covenants with Israel were fulfilled. They were fulfilled in Jesus’ life and work.
* To show how Jesus established the new covenant.
* To show why the readers shouldn’t choose Jewish beliefs and practices over following Jesus.
* To encourage believers who were being treated badly for following Jesus.

**Main ideas**

* Who Jesus is and what he accomplished.
* Old Testament prophecies and promises fulfilled in the new covenant.
* Jesus as greater than the angels, Moses, Aaron and the priests after Aaron. Jesus as greater than the prophets from long ago.
* Jesus as high priest.
* Enjoying God’s rest.
* Examples of faith.

**Outline**

**God fully shows who he is through his Son (1:1–4\).**

**The Son is greater than the angels (1:5 – 2:18\).**

**The Son is the high priest who is faithful and full of mercy (3:1 – 5:10\).**

**The Son is a priest like Melchizedek (5:11 – 10:39\).**

**The need to have faith and not to give up (11:1 – 12:13\).**

**Instructions about living together as a community (12:14 – 13:21\).**

**Final greetings (13:22–25\).**

* **Associated Passages:** HEB 1:1

