# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## 1 Peter (id: 499055)

**What is the book of 1 Peter?**

* The book of 1 Peter is a letter from Peter. Silas helped Peter write it.
* It’s thought that Peter wrote this letter from Rome. It’s thought that he wrote it around year AD 63\.
* The New Testament includes two letters from Peter. This is the first letter.

**Who was 1 Peter written to?**

* To believers in the Roman territories of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia. These territories are in the country now known as Turkey.
* It’s thought that most of these believers were Gentiles.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that 1 Peter shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was 1 Peter written?**

* To help the community of Jesus’ followers live faithfully and wisely.
* To encourage believers who were suffering and being treated badly for following Jesus.

**Main ideas**

* Having hope and not giving up during suffering.
* Always doing good even when it’s hard.
* Jesus’ victory over evil and all evil spiritual beings.

**Outline**

**Greetings (1:1–2\).**

**Living hope and living stones (1:3 – 2:10\).**

**Holy living among unbelievers (2:11 – 3:9\).**

**Suffering for following Jesus (3:10 – 5:11\).**

**Final greetings (5:12–14\).**

* **Associated Passages:** 1PE 1:1

