# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-16`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## 1 John (id: 499057)

**What is the book of** **1 John?**

* The book of 1 John is a letter. The letter doesn’t say who the writer was. It’s thought that the apostle John wrote it. The way the letter is written is very much like the Gospel of John.
* It’s thought that John wrote this letter after writing the Gospel of John. It’s thought that he wrote it between the years AD 85 and 90\.
* The New Testament includes three letters that are thought to be written by John. This is the first letter.

**Who was 1** **John written to?**

* It isn’t known exactly who 1 John was written to. It’s thought that John sent it to believers in the area of Ephesus.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that 1 John shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was 1 John written?**

* To oppose teachers who taught that Jesus wasn’t both a human being and God’s Son.
* To teach about faith in Jesus.

**Main ideas**

* God is love.
* Those who know God and show love to others are God’s children.
* Jesus is completely human and completely God.
* Jesus paid for people’s sins.

**Outline**

**The Word of Life became a human being (1:1–4\).**

**Light and darkness, loving and hating (1:5 – 2:28\).**

**God’s children and the devil’s children (2:29 – 3:24\).**

**Testing the spirits (4:1–6\).**

**God’s love made complete (4:7–21\).**

**Jesus is the true God and giver of eternal life (5\).**

* **Associated Passages:** 1JN 1:1

