# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## 2 John (id: 499058)

**What is the book of 2 John?**

* The book of 2 John is a letter. The letter doesn’t say who the writer was. It’s thought that the apostle John wrote it. The way the letter is written is very much like 1 John.
* It’s thought that John wrote this letter after writing 1 John. It’s thought that he wrote it around the year AD 90\.
* The New Testament includes three letters that are thought to be written by John. This is the second letter.

**Who was 2 John written to?**

* It isn’t known exactly who 2 John was written to. It’s thought that John sent it to a church that met in someone’s home. It’s thought that this church was in the area of Ephesus.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that 2 John shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was 2 John written?**

* To remind the believers what God commanded them to do.
* To remind the believers what is true about Jesus.
* To warn them not to allow false teachers to teach in the church.

**Main ideas**

* Believers are to live a life of love.
* False teachers taught that Jesus wasn’t a human being.
* Believers are family because they belong to God and follow Christ’s teachings.

**Outline**

**Greetings (1:1–3\).**

**John encourages and warns the believers (1:4–11\).**

**Final greetings (1:12–13\).**

* **Associated Passages:** 2JN 1:1

