# Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)

## License Information

**Study Notes - Book Intros (Biblica)** is based on and adapted from: _Biblica Study Notes_, [Biblica Inc.](https://www.biblica.com/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version (created `2025-10-14`) is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Revelation (id: 499061)

**What is the book of** **Revelation?**

* The book of Revelation is a letter. It’s apocalyptic writing and includes prophecy. The writer called himself John. It’s thought that this was the apostle John.
* It’s thought that Revelation was written around the year AD 95\. This was when Domitian was emperor of Rome.

**Who was Revelation written to?**

* To seven churches in the Roman territory called Asia Minor. This is the country now known as Turkey.
* They were the churches in Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea.
* Followers of Jesus recognise that Revelation shares the truth about Jesus. It’s for all people everywhere.

**Why was Revelation written?**

* To encourage believers who were being treated badly for following Jesus.
* To encourage them to refuse to believe false teaching about Jesus.
* To give believers hope about God’s kingdom now and in the future.

**Main ideas**

* Only God is worthy of worship.
* God will stop all evil spiritual powers and the human beings who serve them.
* Jesus will return and will judge all people and all evil spiritual beings.
* Jesus will bring the new heaven and the new earth.

**Outline**

**Greetings (1:1–8\).**

**John’s first vision. Jesus in the middle of the seven lampstands (1:9 – 3:22\).**

**John’s second vision (4 ­– 16\).**

**John’s third vision (17:1 ­– 21:8\).**

**John’s fourth vision. The Holy City (21:9 – 22:5\).**

**Final words (22:6–21\).**

* **Associated Passages:** REV 1:1

